Update and side bar pipelines overview section (#5969)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/pipelines.md

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Pipelines Introduction"
description: "This document introduces the concept of pipelines and shows how pipelines can be triggered and what they include."
categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
version:
- Cloud
- Server v3.x
---

This page provides information on CircleCI pipelines, how they are run, and what they include. For further information on pipeline processing, and the features available within your pipelines, refer to the [Pipeline Processing]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/build-processing) doc.

## Overview
{: #overview }

> CircleCI pipelines are the highest-level unit of work, encompassing a project's full `.circleci/config.yml` file. Pipelines includes your workflows, which coordinate your jobs. They have a fixed, linear lifecycle, and are associated with a specific actor. Pipelines trigger when a change is pushed to a project that has a CircleCI configuration file included, and can also be scheduled, triggered manually through the CircleCI app, or using the API.

Author: ```suggestion
CircleCI pipelines are the highest-level unit of work, encompassing a project's full `.circleci/config.yml` file. Pipelines include your workflows, which coordinate your jobs. They have a fixed, linear lifecycle, and are associated with a specific actor. Pipelines trigger when a change is pushed to a project that has a CircleCI configuration file included, and can also be scheduled, triggered manually through the CircleCI app, or using the API.
```

Pipelines are not available on installations of CircleCI server v2.x.

> When visiting your CircleCI dashboard, you are shown a list of recent pipelines that have run in your organization/account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When visiting your CircleCI dashboard, you are shown a list of recently triggered pipelines in your organization/account.
```

layout: classic-docs
title: "Viewing Pipelines"
short-title: "Viewing Pipelines"

> description: "This document introduces the concept of pipelines and shows how pipelines can be run and wat they include."

Reviewer: Ditto + typofix

```suggestion
description: "This document introduces the concept of pipelines and shows how pipelines can be triggered and what they include."
```

categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
version:
- Cloud
- Server v3.x
---

> This page provides information on CircleCI pipelines, how they are run, and what they include. For further information on pipeline processing and the features available within your pipelines see the [Pipeline Processing]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/build-processing) doc.

Reviewer: Ditto.
```suggestion
This page provides information on CircleCI pipelines, how they are triggered, and what they include. For further information on pipeline processing and the features available within your pipelines see the [Pipeline Processing]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/build-processing) doc.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page provides information on CircleCI pipelines, how they are run, and what they include. For further information on pipeline processing, and the features available within your pipelines, refer to the [Pipeline Processing]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/build-processing) doc.
```

## Overview
{: #overview }

> CircleCI pipelines are the highest-level unit of work, encompassing a project's full `.circleci/config.yml` file. Pipelines includes your workflows, which coordinate your jobs. They have a fixed, linear lifecycle, and are associated with a specific actor. Pipelines run when a change is pushed to a project that has a CircleCI configuration file included, and can also be scheduled, triggered manually through the CircleCI app, or using the API.

Reviewer: Ditto.
```suggestion
CircleCI pipelines are the highest-level unit of work, encompassing a project's full `.circleci/config.yml` file. Pipelines includes your workflows, which coordinate your jobs. They have a fixed, linear lifecycle, and are associated with a specific actor. Pipelines trigger when a change is pushed to a project that has a CircleCI configuration file included, and can also be scheduled, triggered manually through the CircleCI app, or using the API.
```

Pipelines are not available on installations of CircleCI server v2.x.

> When visiting your CircleCI dashboard you are presented with recent pipelines that have run in your organization/account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When visiting your CircleCI dashboard, you are shown a list of recent pipelines that have run in your organization/account.
```

![Screenshot of the pipelines dashboard in the CircleCI app]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/pipelines-dashboard.png)

> ## Running a pipeline

Reviewer: 😇 
```suggestion
## Triggering a pipeline
```

{: #running-a-pipeline }

> Pipelines can be run in several ways. Each method is described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipelines can be triggered in several ways. Each method is described below.
```

> ### Run a pipeline on commit to your code repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Trigger a pipeline on commit to your code repository
```

Reviewer 3: Technically 
```suggestion
### Trigger a pipeline on push to your code repository
```

Reviewer: Yep, Robin's is better here.

{: #run-a-pipeline-on-commit-to-your-code-repository }

Each time a commit is pushed to one of your projects, on a branch that has a `.circleci/config.yml` file included, a pipeline is triggered.

> ### Run a pipeline from the CircleCI app 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Trigger a pipeline from the CircleCI app 
```

{: #run-a-pipeline-from-the-circleci-app }

> In the CircleCI app, when you have a specific branch selected, the **Run Pipeline** button becomes enabled. Click **Run Pipeline**, choose if you want to specify any pipeline parameters, and click **Run Pipeline** again.

Reviewer: Hmm... referring to "Run Pipeline" here is unfortunate, but as this is referring to the app I guess it has to stay.

Reviewer 3: I'd be happy to change the button label.

Reviewer: I've changed the labels in web-ui. 
```suggestion
In the CircleCI app, when you have a specific branch selected, the **Trigger Pipeline** button becomes enabled. Click **Trigger Pipeline**, choose if you want to specify any pipeline parameters, and click **Trigger Pipeline** again.
```

> ### Run a pipeline using the API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Trigger a pipeline using the API
```

Pipelines are not available on installations of CircleCI server v2.x.

When visiting your CircleCI dashboard you are presented with recent pipelines that have run in your organization/account.

## Running a pipeline
{: #running-a-pipeline }

Pipelines can be run in several ways. Each method is described below.

### Run a pipeline on commit to your code repository
{: #run-a-pipeline-on-commit-to-your-code-repository }

Each time a commit is pushed to one of your projects, on a branch that has a `.circleci/config.yml` file included, a pipeline is triggered.

### Run a pipeline from the CircleCI app 
{: #run-a-pipeline-from-the-circleci-app }

In the CircleCI app, when you have a specific branch selected, the **Run Pipeline** button becomes enabled. Click **Run Pipeline**, choose if you want to specify any pipeline parameters, and click **Run Pipeline** again.

### Run a pipeline using the API
{: #run-a-pipeline-using-the-api }

You can trigger a pipeline for a project using the [Trigger a New Pipeline]({{side.baseurl}}/api/v2/#operation/triggerPipeline) endpoint.
<!---

> ### Scheduling a pipeline

Author: ```suggestion
### Scheduling a pipeline
{: #scheduling-a-pipeline}
```
